the avalon a sleeper ship transporting 5
000 colonists and 258 crew members in
hibernation pods
is traveling from earth to the planet
homestead 2 a journey lasting 120 years
30 years into the journey an asteroid
collision damages the ship
that is theoretically damage proof
resulting in a malfunction that awakens
one passenger
mechanical engineer james jim preston 90
years too early
after a year of isolation with only an
android barman named arthur for company
jim grows despondent and contemplates
suicide until he notices a beautiful
young woman named aurora lane inside her
pod
jim views aurora's video file and is
smitten with her
after struggling with the morality of
prematurely reviving aurora for
companionship
thereby robbing her of her future life
he awakens her anyway
letting her believe that her pod also
malfunctioned
jim asks arthur to keep the secret that
he woke her up until jim himself has
told her
aurora devastated at having to live out
her life on the ship
unsuccessfully attempts to re-enter
hibernation
resigned to the situation aurora a
writer and journalist
begins writing a book about her
experience
over the next year jim and aurora slowly
grow closer
eventually falling in love with each
other jim intends to propose to aurora
but after arthur hears jim say that
there are no secrets between
aurora and him arthur inadvertently
reveals the truth to her
aurora anguished alternately berates
shuns
and physically attacks jim she furiously
rejects jim's pleas for forgiveness
and she avoids any contact with him soon
after
another pod failure awakens gus mancuso
chief deck officer
he discovers multiple failures
throughout the ship's systems
although the computer does not reveal
what is causing them
if not repaired the ship will continue
suffering critical system failures and
the mission may fail
which could cost the lives of all the
hibernating passengers and crew
gus attempts to repair the ship with jim
and aurora's help but he soon falls
critically ill
due to complications from the failure of
his pod's life support
the autodoc the ship's automated medical
diagnostics and treatment pod
reveals that gus has only hours to live
before dying gus gives jim and aurora
authorization
to access crew-only areas and to repair
the ship
jim and aurora discover a series of hull
breaches from the asteroid collision two
years earlier
the computer module administering the
fusion reactor powering the ship has
been critically damaged
causing the ship's cascading
malfunctions as all of the other systems
divert computing power towards trying to
maintain the reactor
jim and aurora replace the damaged
module but when the computer attempts to
vent the reactor to extinguish a runaway
plasma reaction
the exterior vent hatch fails jim is
forced to spacewalk and vent the plasma
from outside using the manual hatch
controls within the vent tube
a malfunction forces gym to stay within
the tube to manually keep the hatch open
while aurora initiates the venting from
inside the ship
she admits being terrified of losing gym
and being left alone
jim uses a door as a shield but is
blasted out into space and his tether
snaps
his damaged spacesuit loses oxygen and
he falls unconscious
aurora manages to retrieve a clinically
dead gym from space and resuscitate him
in the ottadoke while the avalon
its reactor repaired returns to normal
operations
afterwards jim learns that the autodog
can function as a makeshift hibernation
pod for one person
he can put aurora back in hibernation
for the remainder of the voyage and
offers her the chance to make it to
homestead 2
and live her desired life willing to
become alone again to do so
realizing that she would never see jim
again aurora chooses to remain awake
with jim
and he presents her with the ring he had
made which she accepts
88 years later the ship's crew is
awakened on schedule
shortly before arrival at homestead 2.
in the ship's grand concourse area they
discover a huge tree
many trailing vines much vegetation
birds flying
and a cabin aurora's voiceover is
reading her story
describing the wonderful life she and
jim had together on the avalon